# LCWMD_Monitoring

<img
    src="https://www.cascobayestuary.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/04/logo_sm.jpg"
    style="position:absolute;top:10px;right:50px;" />


Analysis of ten years of water quality monitoring data from the Long Creek
Watershed Management District in Maine.

# Introduction
This archive includes R scripts and related products analyzing approximately ten
years of water quality monitoring data from the Long Creek Watershed Management
District (LCWMD).The District is a Maine quasi-municipal non-profit corporation
that manages water quality in the Long Creek watershed on behalf of about 130
land owners.

The Long Creek Watershed, a bit over two square miles in area, is dominated by
commercial land use. The Maine Mall is one of the largest land owners in the
watershed, and it is surrounded by a range of commercial businesses, from
medical offices, to car washes.  About a third of the watershed in impervious
surfaces like roads, parking lots, and rooftops.  Landowners with an acre or
more of impervious area are required to get a Clean Water Act permit for
stormwater discharges from their property.  The LCWMD provides an alternative
for landowners to working to receive an individual permit.  Landowners who elect
to participate in the The Long Creek Watershed Management District receive a
General Permit, in return for providing funding to the District, and
facilitating the work of the district by permitting access to their property for
certain activities.

For more information on LCWMD, see [their web site](https://restorelongcreek.org).

# Statement of Purpose
CBEP is committed to the ideal of open science.  Our State of the Bay data
archives ensure the science underlying the 2020 State of the Bay report is
documented and reproducible by others. The purpose of these archives is to
release  data and data analysis code whenever possible to allow others to
review, critique, learn from, and build upon CBEP science.

# Archive Structure
CBEP 2020/2021 State of the Bay data analysis summaries contain a selection of 
data,  data analysis code, and visualization code as used to produce 
results shared via our most recent State of Casco Bay report. Usually, these
archives are organized int otwo or three folders, including the following:

- `Data`  folder.  Contains data in simplified or derived form as used in our
data  analysis.  Associated metadata is contained in related Markdown documents,
usually `DATA_SOURCES.md` and `DATA_NOTES.md`.

- Analysis.  Contains one or more R Notebooks proceeding through the principal
data analysis steps that underpin SoCB reporting. To simplify the archives,
much preliminary analysis, and many analysis "dead ends" have been omitted. 

- Graphics.  Contains R Notebooks stepping through development of graphics, and
also copies of resulting graphics, usually in \*.png and \*.pdf formats.  These
graphics may differ from graphics as they appear in final State of the Bay
graphical layouts. Again, most draft versions of graphics have been omitted for 
clarity.
